src/pages/coaches/alex-lobera.md, before:

---
name: Alex Lobera
title: Tech Lead
companyName: LeanJS
companyLink: https://leanjs.com
gitHub: https://github.com/alexlbr
medium: https://medium.com/@alex_lobera
twitter: https://twitter.com/alex_Lobera
linkedIn: https://uk.linkedin.com/in/alexlobera
blockquote: Teaching other developers is very rewarding. I love sharing what I've learned in my career to help others grow and give back. I think this is what really makes our industry move forward.
youtubeVideoId: QiR8iNq3tCQ
videoDescription: Alex talking about advanced testing at Facebook London HQ
tags: ['advanced']
---

<ul>
    <li>
      Full-stack JavaScript Developer passionate about <strong>teaching React since <a href="https:/www.meetup.com/JavaScript-London/events/230287691/">May, 2016</a></strong>.
   </li>
   <li>
     Alex holds a <strong>computer science degree</strong> and he is also a <strong>certified teacher</strong> in Spanish language.
  </li>
  <li>
     Organizer of the <a href="https://www.meetup.com/JavaScript-london/">JavaScript London Meetup</a> and other popular meetups in the EU.
   </li>
</ul>

Commit message:

Implement query of coach data on about-us page

src/pages/coaches/alex-lobera.md, after:

---
name: Alex Lobera
title: Tech Lead
companyName: LeanJS
companyLink: https://leanjs.com
gitHub: https://github.com/alexlbr
medium: https://medium.com/@alex_lobera
twitter: https://twitter.com/alex_Lobera
linkedIn: https://uk.linkedin.com/in/alexlobera
blockquote: Teaching other developers is very rewarding. I love sharing what I've learned in my career to help others grow and give back. I think this is what really makes our industry move forward.
imageSrc: https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/reactjsacademy-react.appspot.com/o/team%2Falex.jpg?alt=media
imageDescription: React GraphQL Academy coach Alex Lobera, looking happy with mountains in the background
youtubeVideoId: QiR8iNq3tCQ
videoDescription: Alex talking about advanced testing at Facebook London HQ
tags: ['advanced']
---

<ul>
    <li>
      Full-stack JavaScript Developer passionate about <strong>teaching React since <a href="https:/www.meetup.com/JavaScript-London/events/230287691/">May, 2016</a></strong>.
   </li>
   <li>
     Alex holds a <strong>computer science degree</strong> and he is also a <strong>certified teacher</strong> in Spanish language.
  </li>
  <li>
     Organizer of the <a href="https://www.meetup.com/JavaScript-london/">JavaScript London Meetup</a> and other popular meetups in the EU.
   </li>
</ul>
